# 61C Spring 2022 Project 1: Snake

Spec: [https://cs61c.org/sp22/projects/proj1/](https://cs61c.org/sp22/projects/proj1/)

This project was a great introduction and refresher on pointers and C syntax in general. I think for a first project, it was just right in terms of difficulty; it did not take days of our lives off, but it was challenging enough to require multiple sessions to get together and work on the project. Task 1-3 in total took about an hour and a half, and Tasks 4-6 took about 1.5 to 2 hours each. Task 7 was a breeze once we had finished all the other tasks. In terms of the tasks, I think the way they were split into subtasks for Task 4 and 6 was perfect; I especially appreciated the helper functions (tasks 4.1-4.4) that were given to us, because without them, our implementation probably would've looked and functioned a lot worse. It also took the strain off of us having to come up with too much of the logic, and instead spending more time on using and manipulating pointers correctly, which I think was the point of the project. The easiest part of the project was definitely tasks 2, 3, and 7, which took very little time at all. The hardest part of the project for us was Task 6, partly because we were already tired at the point, but also we couldn't find a minor bug which was just us forgetting to write a return statement. Task 5 was also a bit difficult because we had to figure out how to manage files in C. If I were to change one thing about the project, it would be to maybe include a bit more information about Files and how to use them in the spec itself. We spent a lot of time looking up things on Stack Overflow (which might be the point, us having to Google things?) One of the strangest bugs we found was in Task 5, where we were not getting out of a do-while loop, unless we used a break statement (we still don't know exactly why the break statement worked, but the while condition itself didn't). Other than that, our bugs were just a few logic errors, and we were able to find them using the debugging tool! Overall, a great project to start off the year, that we thought would give us a lot of stress, but ended up not being entirely soul-crushing.  
